In elaborating the nature of performances there are concepts that we will first define separately, and then bring together:

Information: any performance-related data recorded in the network.80 The network will ‘automatically’ create the possibility of recording a vast range of data. These will most obviously be about times, places and prices of exchange, but there can readily be produced adjunct data. These could be about performance scripts, design and execution, the agents and their trading histories, time intervals between offers and network matching, intensities of interest from other agents, agent satisfaction, networks of connection between exchanging agents, state changes in the project organization, bits transferred, documents created, and more.

Event: sets of data thought to have a combined meaning (a data narrative). Data analytics could readily be built on top of these raw data. The simplest analytic we call an economic event: the identification of data happening in combinations (a+b)81 where a and b could be raw data or themselves compiled from statistical analytics. One can imagine a tree of a’s and b’s combining to form new, ‘higher-order’ a’s and new b’s.

Events in combinations: events (data narratives) which can cause desired effects. Events are devoid of a causal proposition over time. But when we propose causality (a+b leads to c), we invoke the conditions for a performance. Events in combinations may then be treated as higher-order events themselves. When data are encoded as narratives, they adopt the grammar of value, but still lack the verification of the network that is the condition of value.

Performance: innovation and risk. Events in combinations propose causality, but no innovation. So if the proposition a+b leads to c were posed in the subjunctive tense—if a+b were to lead to c—we add a contingency, for a+b may or may not lead to c. The subjunctive proposition becomes a risk exposure when the occurrence of c has consequences which can be expressed financially..