src/lib/state/flow.md, before:

# Modular State Architecture

## Core Reactive Chain (src/lib/state/core.svelte.ts)

- **userTree** (writable) → triggers everything
- **nodesMap** (derived from userTree)
- **contributors** (calculated from tree)
- **recognitionCache** (ourShare + theirShare from network)
- **mutualRecognition** (derived: min of ourShare, theirShare)
- **providerShares** (derived: normalized mutualRecognition)
- **subtreeContributorMap** (derived from userTree + nodesMap)

## Module Breakdown & Dependencies

### 1. Core State (core.svelte.ts)

**Role**: Foundation layer - contains all reactive stores and derived values
**Dependencies**:

- `svelte/store` (writable, derived, get)
- `$lib/protocol` (business logic functions)
- `$lib/schema` (TypeScript types)

**Exports**: All reactive stores and derived values
**Imported by**: All other modules (gun, calculations, network, subscriptions, ui-providers, debug)

**Key Constraint**: Contains derived stores that cannot be exported due to Svelte 5 restrictions

### 2. Gun Database (gun.svelte.ts)

**Role**: Data persistence and authentication layer
**Dependencies**:

- `gun` and related packages
- `core.svelte` (imports stores to update them)
- `$lib/protocol` (createRootNode)
- `$lib/validation` (parsing functions)

**Exports**:

- Gun instance, authentication functions
- Persistence functions (persistTree, persistCapacities, etc.)
- Data loading functions (manifest, loadRecognitionCache)
- User management (getUserName, userNamesCache)

**Imported by**: calculations, network, subscriptions, ui-providers

### 3. Calculations (calculations.svelte.ts)

**Role**: Business logic and recalculation engine
**Dependencies**:

- `core.svelte` (imports ALL stores for read/write)
- `gun.svelte` (imports persistence functions)
- `$lib/protocol` (business logic functions)

**Exports**:

- Main recalculation functions (recalculateFromTree, recalculateFromCapacities)
- Recognition cache management functions
- Recipient shares calculation

**Imported by**: subscriptions, network, debug

### 4. Network (network.svelte.ts)

**Role**: External data synchronization layer
**Dependencies**:

- `core.svelte` (imports contributors, recognitionCache stores)
- `gun.svelte` (imports gun instance, user, persistRecognitionCache)
- `calculations.svelte` (imports updateRecognitionCache function)

**Exports**:

- Network subscription functions
- SOGF data fetching from other users
- Mutual recognition updates from network

**Imported by**: debug
**Side Effects**: Auto-subscribes to contributor changes via store subscriptions

### 5. Subscriptions (subscriptions.svelte.ts)

**Role**: Reactive orchestration layer
**Dependencies**:

- `core.svelte` (imports stores and loading flags)
- `gun.svelte` (imports persistence functions)
- `calculations.svelte` (imports recalculation functions)
- `$lib/schema` (Node type)

**Exports**: None (side-effects only)
**Side Effects**:

- Auto-triggers recalculations on store changes
- Implements debouncing (300ms)
- Forces immediate persistence on changes

### 6. UI Providers (ui-providers.svelte.ts)

**Role**: UI data transformation layer
**Dependencies**:

- `core.svelte` (imports userTree, nodesMap, recipientSharesMap)
- `gun.svelte` (imports usersList)
- `$lib/protocol` (getSubtreeContributorMap)

**Exports**:

- Dropdown data providers (users, subtrees)
- Generic dropdown interfaces
- User shares lookup functions

**Imported by**: UI components

### 7. Debug (debug.svelte.ts)

**Role**: Development utilities layer
**Dependencies**:

- `core.svelte` (imports all stores for debugging)
- `network.svelte` (imports subscription functions)

**Exports**:

- Debug state inspection functions
- Manual subscription triggers
- Global window function exposure

**Imported by**: None (used via global window functions)

### 8. Index (index.svelte.ts)

**Role**: Public API and activation layer
**Dependencies**: ALL other modules
**Exports**: Re-exports everything from all modules
**Side Effects**: Activates subscriptions and network by importing them

## Dependency Hierarchy

```
Level 0 (Foundation):
├── core.svelte.ts (reactive stores & derived values)

Level 1 (Data Layer):
├── gun.svelte.ts (persistence & auth)
│   └── depends on: core

Level 2 (Logic Layer):
├── calculations.svelte.ts (business logic)
│   └── depends on: core, gun
├── network.svelte.ts (external sync)
│   └── depends on: core, gun, calculations

Level 3 (Orchestration Layer):
├── subscriptions.svelte.ts (reactive triggers)
│   └── depends on: core, gun, calculations
├── ui-providers.svelte.ts (UI data)
│   └── depends on: core, gun

Level 4 (Utilities Layer):
├── debug.svelte.ts (development tools)
│   └── depends on: core, network

Level 5 (Public API):
├── index.svelte.ts (unified exports)
│   └── depends on: ALL modules
```

## Data Flow with Module Responsibilities

```
userTree (change in core.svelte.ts)
    ↓
subscriptions.svelte.ts (detects change, debounces)
    ↓
calculations.svelte.ts (recalculateFromTree)
    ↓
core.svelte.ts (updates contributors, userSogf, recognitionCache)
    ↓
core.svelte.ts (derived: mutualRecognition, providerShares)
    ↓
gun.svelte.ts (persistence via calculations)
    ↓
network.svelte.ts (subscribes to contributors' SOGF)
    ↓
core.svelte.ts (updates recognitionCache with theirShare)
    ↓
ui-providers.svelte.ts (transforms for UI consumption)
    ↓
UI Components (reactive updates)
```

## Circular Dependency Prevention

**Resolved Dependencies**:

- `persistRecognitionCache()` moved from calculations → gun to break cycle
- Network imports it from gun instead of calculations
- Clear hierarchy prevents circular imports

**Import Rules**:

- Lower levels cannot import from higher levels
- Core is imported by all but imports none
- Index imports all but is imported by none

## Benefits of Modular Structure

1. **Separation of Concerns**: Each module has a clear responsibility
2. **Svelte 5 Compliance**: Derived stores stay in core module to avoid export restrictions
3. **Maintainability**: Easier to find and modify specific functionality
4. **Testing**: Each module can be tested independently
5. **Circular Dependency Prevention**: Clear dependency hierarchy
6. **Code Organization**: Related functionality grouped together
7. **Dependency Clarity**: Easy to understand what each module needs and provides



# Ideal Flow

## Core Reactive Chain (src/lib/state/core.svelte.ts)

- **userTree** (writable) → triggers everything
- **nodesMap** (derived from userTree)
- **contributors** (calculated from tree)
- **recognitionCache** (ourShare + theirShare from network)
- **mutualRecognition** (derived: min of ourShare, theirShare)
- **mutualContributors** (derived from mutualRecognition)
- **providerShares** (derived: normalized mutualRecognition)
- **subtreeContributorMap** (derived from userTree + nodesMap)

- **capacities** (writable)
- **capacityShares** (derived: from capacities and providerShares)

- **recipientCapacityShares** (writable) // Populated via a subscription to our ID in the capacityShares of our mutual-contributors
- **recipientCapacities** (derived: recipientCapacityShares) // Populated via a subscription the capacities of our mutual-contributors, filtering out those capacities in which we have no share


▲ SOGF triggers providerShares recalculation
▲ providerShares triggers capacityShares Recalculation (for *all capacities*)
capacityShares maps CapacityIDs to {ContributorId: Percentage}
▲ in a Capacity's Filters triggers capacityShares Recalculation (for *that specific capacity*)

## Persistance Strategy:
SOGF: Map{contributorId: Percentage}: This way we can subscribe to our own contributorId in one's sogf
Capacities: JSON.stringify(structuredClone(capacities))

capacityShares: {capacityId: Map{ContributorId: Percentage}}: 
- With this approach, without JSON.stringifying, we would need to gun.get(`~${contributorId}`).get('capacityShares').map().on(cb filter for those capacities in which we have a Percentage)

Or if instead the Provider stores:
capacityShares: {contributorId: JSON.stringify(Map{CapacityId: Percentage})}: 
- With this approach, without JSON.stringifying, we would need to gun.get(`~${contributorId}`).get('capacityShares').get(ourId).on(cb)
- with this approach we would not need to store in memory the capacities others have access to but we don't, and the data would already be filtered for us.
- it also makes making the shares other have private-easier for the future
- In this approach, the recipientShares are not part of the Capacity Object directly (this would necessitate changing our schema)

## What we subscribe to:
SOGF of our *contributors*: gun.get(`~${contributorId}`).get('sogf');
All Capacities of our *mutual-contributors*: gun.get(`~${contributorId}`).get('capacities');
capacityShares of our *mutual-contributors*: gun.get(`~${contributorId}`).get('capacityShares');

### Advantages of this seperation between capacities and capacityShares:
- Since capacityShares is the most auto-changeable value, changes to capacties (asides from changes to filters) wont trigger capacity subscriptions and wont require reprocessing of capacityShares.



We already have: persistRecipientSharesCalculation

Commit message:

Enhance capacity management and validation in protocol and schema
- Refactored capacity-related functions in `protocol.ts` to improve type safety and clarity, including the introduction of `BaseCapacity`, `ProviderCapacity`, and `RecipientCapacity` types.
- Updated `schema.ts` to streamline capacity definitions and ensure consistent validation using Zod.
- Improved validation logging in `validation.ts` to provide clearer error messages and track changes during capacity validation.
- Enhanced the `Capacities.svelte` and `Capacity.svelte` components to utilize the new capacity types, ensuring better integration with the updated schema.
- Refactored state management in `core.svelte` to include derived stores for capacity shares, improving data handling and reactivity across components.
- Cleaned up unused code and improved performance by consolidating reactive updates and ensuring immutability in capacity handling.

src/lib/state/flow.md, after:

# Modular State Architecture

## Core Reactive Chain (src/lib/state/core.svelte.ts)

- **userTree** (writable) → triggers everything
- **nodesMap** (derived from userTree)
- **contributors** (calculated from tree)
- **recognitionCache** (ourShare + theirShare from network)
- **mutualRecognition** (derived: min of ourShare, theirShare)
- **providerShares** (derived: normalized mutualRecognition)
- **subtreeContributorMap** (derived from userTree + nodesMap)

## Module Breakdown & Dependencies

### 1. Core State (core.svelte.ts)

**Role**: Foundation layer - contains all reactive stores and derived values
**Dependencies**:

- `svelte/store` (writable, derived, get)
- `$lib/protocol` (business logic functions)
- `$lib/schema` (TypeScript types)

**Exports**: All reactive stores and derived values
**Imported by**: All other modules (gun, calculations, network, subscriptions, ui-providers, debug)

**Key Constraint**: Contains derived stores that cannot be exported due to Svelte 5 restrictions

### 2. Gun Database (gun.svelte.ts)

**Role**: Data persistence and authentication layer
**Dependencies**:

- `gun` and related packages
- `core.svelte` (imports stores to update them)
- `$lib/protocol` (createRootNode)
- `$lib/validation` (parsing functions)

**Exports**:

- Gun instance, authentication functions
- Persistence functions (persistTree, persistCapacities, etc.)
- Data loading functions (manifest, loadRecognitionCache)
- User management (getUserName, userNamesCache)

**Imported by**: calculations, network, subscriptions, ui-providers

### 3. Calculations (calculations.svelte.ts)

**Role**: Business logic and recalculation engine
**Dependencies**:

- `core.svelte` (imports ALL stores for read/write)
- `gun.svelte` (imports persistence functions)
- `$lib/protocol` (business logic functions)

**Exports**:

- Main recalculation functions (recalculateFromTree, recalculateFromCapacities)
- Recognition cache management functions
- Recipient shares calculation

**Imported by**: subscriptions, network, debug

### 4. Network (network.svelte.ts)

**Role**: External data synchronization layer
**Dependencies**:

- `core.svelte` (imports contributors, recognitionCache stores)
- `gun.svelte` (imports gun instance, user, persistRecognitionCache)
- `calculations.svelte` (imports updateRecognitionCache function)

**Exports**:

- Network subscription functions
- SOGF data fetching from other users
- Mutual recognition updates from network

**Imported by**: debug
**Side Effects**: Auto-subscribes to contributor changes via store subscriptions

### 5. Subscriptions (subscriptions.svelte.ts)

**Role**: Reactive orchestration layer
**Dependencies**:

- `core.svelte` (imports stores and loading flags)
- `gun.svelte` (imports persistence functions)
- `calculations.svelte` (imports recalculation functions)
- `$lib/schema` (Node type)

**Exports**: None (side-effects only)
**Side Effects**:

- Auto-triggers recalculations on store changes
- Implements debouncing (300ms)
- Forces immediate persistence on changes

### 6. UI Providers (ui-providers.svelte.ts)

**Role**: UI data transformation layer
**Dependencies**:

- `core.svelte` (imports userTree, nodesMap, recipientSharesMap)
- `gun.svelte` (imports usersList)
- `$lib/protocol` (getSubtreeContributorMap)

**Exports**:

- Dropdown data providers (users, subtrees)
- Generic dropdown interfaces
- User shares lookup functions

**Imported by**: UI components

### 7. Debug (debug.svelte.ts)

**Role**: Development utilities layer
**Dependencies**:

- `core.svelte` (imports all stores for debugging)
- `network.svelte` (imports subscription functions)

**Exports**:

- Debug state inspection functions
- Manual subscription triggers
- Global window function exposure

**Imported by**: None (used via global window functions)

### 8. Index (index.svelte.ts)

**Role**: Public API and activation layer
**Dependencies**: ALL other modules
**Exports**: Re-exports everything from all modules
**Side Effects**: Activates subscriptions and network by importing them

## Dependency Hierarchy

```
Level 0 (Foundation):
├── core.svelte.ts (reactive stores & derived values)

Level 1 (Data Layer):
├── gun.svelte.ts (persistence & auth)
│   └── depends on: core

Level 2 (Logic Layer):
├── calculations.svelte.ts (business logic)
│   └── depends on: core, gun
├── network.svelte.ts (external sync)
│   └── depends on: core, gun, calculations

Level 3 (Orchestration Layer):
├── subscriptions.svelte.ts (reactive triggers)
│   └── depends on: core, gun, calculations
├── ui-providers.svelte.ts (UI data)
│   └── depends on: core, gun

Level 4 (Utilities Layer):
├── debug.svelte.ts (development tools)
│   └── depends on: core, network

Level 5 (Public API):
├── index.svelte.ts (unified exports)
│   └── depends on: ALL modules
```

## Data Flow with Module Responsibilities

```
userTree (change in core.svelte.ts)
    ↓
subscriptions.svelte.ts (detects change, debounces)
    ↓
calculations.svelte.ts (recalculateFromTree)
    ↓
core.svelte.ts (updates contributors, userSogf, recognitionCache)
    ↓
core.svelte.ts (derived: mutualRecognition, providerShares)
    ↓
gun.svelte.ts (persistence via calculations)
    ↓
network.svelte.ts (subscribes to contributors' SOGF)
    ↓
core.svelte.ts (updates recognitionCache with theirShare)
    ↓
ui-providers.svelte.ts (transforms for UI consumption)
    ↓
UI Components (reactive updates)
```

## Circular Dependency Prevention

**Resolved Dependencies**:

- `persistRecognitionCache()` moved from calculations → gun to break cycle
- Network imports it from gun instead of calculations
- Clear hierarchy prevents circular imports

**Import Rules**:

- Lower levels cannot import from higher levels
- Core is imported by all but imports none
- Index imports all but is imported by none

## Benefits of Modular Structure

1. **Separation of Concerns**: Each module has a clear responsibility
2. **Svelte 5 Compliance**: Derived stores stay in core module to avoid export restrictions
3. **Maintainability**: Easier to find and modify specific functionality
4. **Testing**: Each module can be tested independently
5. **Circular Dependency Prevention**: Clear dependency hierarchy
6. **Code Organization**: Related functionality grouped together
7. **Dependency Clarity**: Easy to understand what each module needs and provides



# Ideal Flow

## Core Reactive Chain (src/lib/state/core.svelte.ts)

- **userTree** (writable) → triggers everything
- **nodesMap** (derived from userTree)
- **contributors** (calculated from tree)
- **recognitionCache** (ourShare + theirShare from network)
- **mutualRecognition** (derived: min of ourShare, theirShare)
- **mutualContributors** (derived from mutualRecognition)
- **providerShares** (derived: normalized mutualRecognition)
- **subtreeContributorMap** (derived from userTree + nodesMap)

- **capacities** (writable)
- **capacityShares** (derived: from capacities and providerShares)
- **contributorCapacityShares** (derived: from capacityShares)

- **networkCapacityShares** (writable) // Populated via a subscription to our ID in the capacityShares of our mutual-contributors
- **userNetworkCapacitiesWithShares** (derived: networkCapacityShares and networkCapacities) // Populated via a subscription the capacities of our mutual-contributors, filtering out those capacities in which we have no share


▲ SOGF triggers providerShares recalculation
▲ providerShares triggers capacityShares Recalculation (for *all capacities*)
capacityShares maps CapacityIDs to {ContributorId: Percentage}
▲ in a Capacity's Filters triggers capacityShares Recalculation (for *that specific capacity*)

## Persistance Strategy:
SOGF: Map{contributorId: Percentage}: This way we can subscribe to our own contributorId in one's sogf
Capacities: JSON.stringify(structuredClone(capacities))

capacityShares: {capacityId: Map{ContributorId: Percentage}}: 
- this is useful for our existing rendering logic
- With this approach, without JSON.stringifying, we would need to gun.get(`~${contributorId}`).get('capacityShares').map().on(cb filter for those capacities in which we have a Percentage)

Or if instead the Provider stores also:
contributorCapacityShares: {contributorId: JSON.stringify(Map{CapacityId: Percentage})}: 
- With this approach, without JSON.stringifying, we would need to gun.get(`~${contributorId}`).get('capacityShares').get(ourId).on(cb)
- it also makes making the shares other have private-easier for the future
- In this approach, the recipientShares are not part of the Capacity Object directly (this would necessitate changing our schema)

## What we subscribe to:
SOGF of our *contributors*: gun.get(`~${contributorId}`).get('sogf');
All Capacities of our *mutual-contributors*: gun.get(`~${contributorId}`).get('capacities');
contributorCapacityShares of our *mutual-contributors*: gun.get(`~${contributorId}`).get('contributorCapacityShares');

### Advantages of this seperation between capacities and capacityShares:
- Since capacityShares is the most auto-changeable value, changes to capacties (asides from changes to filters) wont trigger capacity subscriptions and wont require reprocessing of capacityShares.



We already have: persistRecipientSharesCalculation

We should subscribe to our own tree, and capacities as well
